docs(wysiwyg): Added documentations and guides on how to use Wysiwyg (#896)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/02-guides/display-wysiwyg-content.mdx

---
title: Display WYSIWYG content
description:
  Let your users write their content without needing any HTML or React knowledge
  while still being able to deliver a qualitative UI (performant, responsive,
  accessible…) to customers.
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import ContactLink from "@site/src/components/ContactLink";
import SinceVersion from "@site/src/components/SinceVersion";

<SinceVersion tag="3.4" />

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

> WYSIWYG stands for **W**hat **Y**ou **S**ee **I**s **W**hat **Y**ou **G**et. It
> means that your back office users write their content without needing any HTML
> or React knowledge. This is the case in most CMS tools nowadays. The output
> though is usually HTML which does not necessarily match the React components
> you've built in your Front-Commerce application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<abbr title="What You See Is What You Get" >WYSIWYG</abbr> allows your back office users write their content without needing any HTML or React knowledge. This is the case in most CMS tools nowadays. The output
though is usually HTML which does not necessarily match the React components
you've built in your Front-Commerce application.
```

> This is why we've built a `theme/modules/Wysiwyg` component in Front-Commerce.
> In this guide you will learn how to use it and how to customize its display.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is why we've built a `theme/modules/Wysiwyg` component in Front-Commerce.
In this guide you will learn how to use it and how to customize the displayed components.
```

## `<Wysiwyg />` usage

Here is an example of using this component:

```tsx
import React from "react";
import Wysiwyg from "theme/modules/Wysiwyg";

> export default (props) => <Wysiwyg content={props.cms.contentWysiwyg} />;

Reviewer: Bad example, components should preferably be named, this helps to avoid anonymous in react dev tools, as well as with HMR

```suggestion
export default function BlogContent(props) {
    return <Wysiwyg content={props.cms.contentWysiwyg} />;
}
```

```

> The `contentWysiwyg` property must come from a GraphQL field of type `Wysiwyg`.
> It comes from the `WysiwygFragment` fragment available at
> [`theme/modules/Wysiwyg/WysiwygFragment.gql`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/3.4.0/packages/theme-chocolatine/theme/modules/Wysiwyg/WysiwygFragment.gql),
> and using in `CmsPageFragment` available at
> [`theme/pages/CmsPage/CmsPageFragment.gql`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/3.4.0/packages/theme-chocolatine/theme/pages/CmsPage/CmsPageFragment.gql).

Reviewer: The wording is quite weird here, here is my attempt at re-phrasing it, but the part for `CmsPageFragment` also needs some improvement.

```suggestion
The `contentWysiwyg` property originates from a GraphQL field `Wysiwyg`.
To see the required fields, see the `WysiwygFragment` fragment  reference available at
[`theme/modules/Wysiwyg/WysiwygFragment.gql`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/3.4.0/packages/theme-chocolatine/theme/modules/Wysiwyg/WysiwygFragment.gql),
and using in `CmsPageFragment` available at
[`theme/pages/CmsPage/CmsPageFragment.gql`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/3.4.0/packages/theme-chocolatine/theme/pages/CmsPage/CmsPageFragment.gql).
```

## Wysiwyg customization

**Prerequisite:** Please note that the following sections use advanced
techniques in Front-Commerce. You especially need to be familiar with the

> GraphQL extension mechanisms before being able to fully apprehend what is

Reviewer: Link?

```suggestion
[GraphQL extension mechanisms](XXXX) before being able to fully apprehend what is
```

1.  Duplicate the
    [`DefaultWysiwyg.js`](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/3.4.0/packages/theme-chocolatine/theme/modules/Wysiwyg/DefaultWysiwyg.js)
    component to `theme/modules/Wysiwyg/CustomWysiwyg`.
1.  Override `theme/modules/Wysiwyg/appWysiwygComponents.js` and map your new
    `CustomWysiwyg` typename (the one used in your GraphQL schema) to
    `theme/modules/Wysiwyg/CustomWysiwyg` (the file that tells React how to
    display the content)

    ```ts title="theme/modules/Wysiwyg/appWysiwygComponents.js"
    import CustomWysiwyg from "theme/modules/Wysiwyg/CustomWysiwyg";

    export default {
      CustomWysiwyg,
    };
    ```

That's it, you have a new `CustomWysiwyg` type. However, the components rendered
are still simple HTML tags. If you want to add interactivity, you will need to
refer to the `theme/modules/Wysiwyg/CustomWysiwyg` you have created.

In this file you will notice that there is a `defaultComponentsMap` constant.
This object is used to reference how to render each html tag in your Wysiwyg
component. We call these **transforms**: they transform an html tag into a React

> component. This is what will allow you to finely tune how your Wysiwyg is

Reviewer: Some times you use `WYSIWYG` other times `Wysiwyg`, try to update everything to use the same casing.

I prefer `Wysiwyg` as it reads easier, but `WYSIWYG` is probably more correct, as it's an acronym

Author: Good point, I'll make a pass and rename everything to the acronym version.

displayed and add interactivity to your content.

For instance, if you want your `h2` tags to have some additional classes, you
could use the following `defaultComponentsMap` instead:

```ts
const defaultComponentsMap = {
  h2: (props) => <h2 {...props} className="wysiwyg-h2" />,
};
```

The props available represent the HTML attributes coming from your Wysiwyg
content. The only difference compared to traditional HTML is that `class` is
renamed to `className` to better support React patterns and the `props.children`
is an already constructed React element.

:::note

If the component is complex, please think about code splitting them to avoid too

> large bundles on pages that don't need them.

Reviewer: You can link to react code splitting patterns using `lazy()` and `Suspense`

:::

### Fetching data to render Wysiwyg components

You can now transform HTML tags into React components. However, in some cases
the data provided in the raw HTML you've received from your remote service won't
be enough to display your component. For instance, you may have a
`<product-name sku="VSK12" />` that is supposed to display the product's name.
But all you have in the attributes is the SKU. This can be done by associating a
`WysiwygNodeData` with your HTML node.

Indeed, when you've created your GraphQL `CustomWysiwyg` type, you have
declared: `childNodes` (`JSON`) and `data` (`[WysiwygNodeData]`). By default,

> `data` will always be empty. But you can tell the Wysiwyg loader to fetch data
> for some specific `childNodes` (that each represent an HTML tag). This means

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`data` will always be empty. But you can tell the Wysiwyg loader to fetch data
for some specific `childNodes` (_each representing an HTML tag_). This means
```

that for `product-name`, you will associate a new `data` element that will
contain the whole product data needed to display the component. To do so, you
need to follow these steps:

#### Add the product data to your GraphQL schema

1.  Make sure that your dependencies are up to date in your GraphQL module
    ```ts title="extensions/acme-extension/modules/wysiwyg/index.ts"
    export default createGraphQLModule({
      namespace: "Magento2/Cms",
      // highlight-start
      dependencies: [
        "Front-Commerce/Wysiwyg", // ensure that Wysiwyg related features are available
        "Magento2/Catalog/Product" // ensure that you can fetch a product in your Wysiwyg data
      ],
      // highlight-end

>     ```

Reviewer: No runtime?

1.  Define a new `WysiwygProductNameData` type that implements `WysiwygNodeData`
    and expose all the data you need to display your component
    ```ts title="extensions/acme-extension/modules/wysiwyg/index.ts"
    typeDefs: /* GraphQL */ `
      type WysiwygProductNameData implements WysiwygNodeData {
        dataId: ID
        product: Product
      }
    `,

>     ```

Reviewer: inline this in the graphql module

1.  Setup the resolvers to tell GraphQL how to fetch the `product` field in your
    new `WysiwygProductNameData` type
    ```ts title="extensions/acme-extension/modules/wysiwyg/resolvers.js"
    export default {
      WysiwygProductNameData: {
        product: ({ node }, _, { loaders }) => {
          const productSkuAttribute = node.attrs.find(
            ({ name }) => name === "sku"
          );
          if (!productSkuAttribute) {
            return null;
          }
          return loaders.Product.load(productSkuAttribute.value);
        },
      },
    };
    ```
1.  Register the HTML tag and associate it with the GraphQL type
    ```ts title="extensions/acme-extension/modules/wysiwyg/runtime.ts"
    // ...
    contextEnhancer: ({ loaders }) => {
      loaders.Wysiwyg.registerNodeType(
        "product-name", // the tag name in your HTML
        "WysiwygProductNameData" // The associated GraphQL type name
      );
    };
    // ...

>     ```

Reviewer: As previously mentioned, inline the resolvers in the runtime, and wrap with the creator function

#### Fetch the data to make it available in your custom Product Name component

1. Override the `WysiwygFragment.gql` to fetch the new `WysiwygProductNameData`

   ```graphql title="theme/modules/Wysiwyg/WysiwygFragment.gql"
   #import "theme/modules/Wysiwyg/MagentoWysiwyg/MagentoWysiwygFragment.gql"

   fragment WysiwygFragment on Wysiwyg {
     childNodes
     data {
       dataId
       // highlight-start
       ... on WysiwygProductNameData {
         product {
           sku
           name
         }
       }
       // highlight-end
     }
     ... on MagentoWysiwyg {
       ...MagentoWysiwygFragment
     }
   }
   ```

   Feel free to split this in a Fragment dedicated to your `CustomWysiwyg` just
   like it is done in the core for `MagentoWysiwyg`.

2. Reference the `product-name` tag in your componentMap and use the new `data`
   prop available in the mapped component.

   ```ts title="extensions/acme-extension/theme/modules/Wysiwyg/DefaultWysiwyg.js"
   const defaultComponentsMap = {

>      product-name: (props) => <span>{props.data.product.name}</span>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     "product-name": (props) => <span>{props.data.product.name}</span>
```

   }
   ```

   :::note Important

   Please keep in mind that for simplicity's sake, the product name component is
   not code split, but if it grows in complexity, please make sure to code split
   it using <code>@loadable/component</code> to avoid too large bundles.

>    :::

Reviewer: We no longer support loadable, link to an example using react `lazy()` and `Suspense`
